---
title: "Wow, Bao"
type: posts

---

this is was the first article Ive ever written for the Water Tower, it's rough around the edges but i think it reads okay.


---
Wow, Bao


“Wow Bao” is a dining option offered on campus that specializes in many Asian
delicacies such as noodles, potstickers, and homemade ginger ale. Business has been
slow for the forbidden palace as they’ve been competing with campus staples such as
Skinny Pancake, Ben and Jerry’s, and the “Around the World” offerings at the Harris
Millis dining hall. In general, Asians are an underrepresented group at UVM and it’s
difficult to assess how the general student body feels about Asian culture. Consequently,
it’s important to analyze where UVM fits in the bigger picture of Asian identity. When
surveying student eating habits at UVM, Asian cuisine is often avoided, leading us to
conclude that the average student on campus fears Asians.


A sophomore had this to say about the Shanghai Shanty, “My grandpa had a
traumatic encounter with the Chinese. It wasn’t the war, it was dementia kicking in at
my graduation party at PF Chang’s. I don’t eat that kind of food anymore.” The
Chopstick Cohort plans to renovate the establishment, adding a cardboard cutout of
NBA player Jeremy Lin, citing its reason to “give a more wholesome look to the eatery.”
The menu will also now include a more westernized interpretation of their current
noodle bowls. The new menu item is a noodle dish with balls of meat topped with a
tomato based Szechuan sauce, it’s origins cited from the classic oriental canals of
Venice.


I decided to eat at the establishment so as to properly understand why the
establishment might be a turn-off for some. As a Chinaman myself, it was important to
put aside my pride in the glorious motherland and have an objective review of the food. 
I ordered the coconut custard bao and the egg, bacon and cheddar bao, as well as a
fountain soda. It was hard not to imagine my ancestors, poor and struggling to survive
on what was given by the imperial government, sitting down for the same meal I was
eating after a hard day’s work on the small chicken farm. Day in day out, back breaking
work only to come home to a glass of ginger ale and coconut custard bao. Nostalgia has a
funny way of creeping into your life when you least expect it; memories of me and my
family sitting together for traditional home-cooked meals bonding closely over our
shared heritage. Those memories had no relation to what I was eating. The food was
stale and I felt cheated out of the small rations the $50,000 tuition at this school
provides. It was almost violating, 10,000 years of Chinese history leading to the
equivalent of a bacon egg and cheese on a soft taco.


Wow Bao is a strange specimen in the ecosystem of UVM Dining. It offers little to
those who are familiar and crave the kind of cuisine it claims to provide, and its menu is
a boring interpretation of what could be a fresh addition to a diet that consists of
Grundle pasta and Brennan’s chicken fingers. Asian immigrants in America have a long
history of opening restaurants among other businesses to provide for themselves in a
country where Eastern culture is alienating. American Chinese food was invented for
these restaurants to survive, serving immigrant foods to a western palette. Wow Bao
feels like a corporate version of that same dominant western culture forcing an identity
to conform to what’s “normal.” Yet its branding suggests that it serves authenticity,
something I feel is misleading and detrimental to making a “traditional America” more
inclusive. In my opinion, I look at Wow Bao and see a microcosm of important issues in
contemporary America. A place where people have a desire to experience how the other
side lives, but never straying too far from their comfort zone. It reminds me of what I 
want most, to have other cultures in this country to be uncensored and accepted for
what they are. Maybe then students will be able to let their guard down around the
Asian boogeyman